So let's in this lecture create an option to change this URL  slug here.
So you might think this is easy.
We'll just add an option in the Customizer and we already know how to do that.
And then when we create or post type we'll just instead of typing "portfolio" here we'll get it from the
theme option. But actually there is a couple of tricky points in this option.
So that's why I decided to do it.
So first let's go to customize.php. And let's add this option in the general setting.
So I think you already know how to add options.
We've done it before.
So I'm just gonna paste these.
So I just added a new setting "portfolio_slug".
And it has default value and sanitizing and you already know that. And the control for it which is a textfield
inside the General section.
So let's save and let's go to the Customizer.
And now in the General Options we have the Slug. So now you might think I'm gonna go to this file and type
here get_theme_mod() and then the name of the setting.
But actually it's not.
You can do that but it's not a good practice to use a theme option inside a plugin, right?
So it's much cleaner to somehow use this option inside of the theme and WordPress actually makes this pretty
easy.
We have a filter that you can use to filter these $args. So we can run this filter in the theme and then
we can modify the rewrite key in the arguments.
So let's go to, let's put it in the theme, in functions.php.
Let's add filter.
It's called "register_post_type_args". And let's create a new function.
Let's call it "_themename_filter_portfolio".
And it takes two arguments. So let's define this function.
And the two arguments are the $args of course and the $post_type.
So this filter will run for all custom post types and we need only to modify the portfolio post type.
So let's do a quick check here. "if ($post_type"
is equals to
and then you add the slug of the post type which is this one.
If so we need to modify the $args and then return it, right?
So what do we need to modify in the args? We need to modify the "rewrite" and the "slug" inside the rewrite.
So let's set this to get_theme_() and then the name of the setting,
this one. And the "default", let's default it to it "portfolio". So let's save now and let's go.
And let's refresh. And let's modify this, maybe add an "s" here.
And publish. And then let's go to your URL
and then "/portfolios" and it's not gonna work. And I think you should know why,
right?
We need to update our rewrite rules. So let's save this and let's try to refresh again.
And it's also not working.
I think I've mistyped "portfolios".
And as you can see it's working and "portfolio" will not be working anymore.
So that's great.
But every time the user changes the slug, he'll need to go to the permalinks and save. So we can, you know
write here in the description that you have to do that, but it will be great if we do that automatically
when the user change this field, right?
So what we can do is we can use a WordPress action that will fire every time you publish the Customizer.
So let's go here and let's "add_action". And this one is called "customizer_save_after" or actually "customize_
save_after". And let's create a function. Let's call it "_themename" and let's call it the same name.
And let's create this function. And after saving this function will fire.
So we can just call the flush_rewrite_rules() function.
So let's see.
And let's try to set it back to "portfolio". So now before saving
let's imagine what will happen because it's not gonna work.
So what will happen is we will publish,
right?
And this action will run, this function will run and flush rewrite rules will be called.
But when flush_rewrite_rules() is called the post type is already registered with the old name. Or
in other words when this function is called the "int" action has already fired and the post type has
already been registered. And it's registered using this filter and this filter will contain the get_theme_mod()
which will contain the old value.
Right?
So let's just try and publish. And let's go to "portfolio".
And as you can see it's not gonna work.
But now when we refresh the page this "init" action rerun and the filter for the arguments. And the filter for
the arguments will contain the new value.
Right?
So now what we'll have to do is to save again so that when the flush_rewrite_rules() run, the custom post
type will be registered with the new name.
So I hope I'm making sense.
So let's try now and save. Let's refresh and let's save this again.
So let's change any value and save.
And let's refresh now.
And now we have it.
So we introduced a new problem now. And this problem is similar to the one that happened when we were
creating or activation and deactivation hooks for the plugin. And just in case you still don't understand
the problem.
In a nutshell when we click publish here the post type has already been registered and it's registered
with the old name not the one that you update here.
So when the flush_rewrite_rules() run it will see that you have a post type but with the old name.
So that's why we have to save twice in order for the setting to reflect. So let's try and solve this problem
in the next lecture.